README.md, before:

![alt text](https://github.com/ThomasThelen/Finite-Difference-Method/raw/master/banner.png)

[![Project Status: Inactive – The project has reached a stable, usable state but is no longer being actively developed; support/maintenance will be provided as time allows.](https://www.repostatus.org/badges/latest/inactive.svg)](https://www.repostatus.org/#inactive)  [![license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/mashape/apistatus.svg)]()
[![CodeFactor](https://www.codefactor.io/repository/github/thomasthelen/finite-difference-method/badge)](https://www.codefactor.io/repository/github/thomasthelen/finite-difference-method)


This repository hosts a small library/engine for solving spacial differential equations using the finite difference method. This was created as a fun way to explore numerical methods as a stepping stone for the Finite Elements Method. Feel free to use this code as an example of how to numerically solve partial differential equations.

## How it Works

Spacial variables such as the object length, conductivity, and step size across the mesh are kept in the `Mesh` class. An example of filling out relevant `Mesh` information is showen below.

`Mesh1D mesh;`

`mesh.spacial_length = 10;`

`mesh.spacial_step_size = 1;`

`mesh.thermal_conductivity = 0.01;`


The boundary condition is represented by a function that takes two parameters: x and y. The boundary condition can be changed by changing the equation inside. For example, a periodic boundary condition can be represented by 

```
double BC(double x, int y)
{
	return sin(x)*cos(y);
}
```

The boundary condition also belongs to the mesh.

`mesh.DirchletBoundaryEquation = BC;`

`Engine1D engine;`

`engine.StartSimulation(mesh);`

Commit message:

Treat warnings as errors & use cmake

README.md, after:

![alt text](https://github.com/ThomasThelen/Finite-Difference-Method/raw/master/banner.png)

[![The project has reached a stable, usable state and is being actively developed.](https://www.repostatus.org/badges/latest/active.svg)](https://www.repostatus.org/#active)  [![license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/mashape/apistatus.svg)]()
[![CodeFactor](https://www.codefactor.io/repository/github/thomasthelen/finite-difference-method/badge)](https://www.codefactor.io/repository/github/thomasthelen/finite-difference-method)


# FDM

FDM is a C++ source library that exposes an engine for running the method of Finite Elements across one dimension. This is mostly a personal exploration of The Finite Difference Method, CUDA, and Python Bindings.

## Using

To use the engine, git clone the repository and include the required headers in your source file. Examples are given in the [examples](examples/) directory.

## Building

To build, run `cmake ..` and `cmake --build .` from the `build/` directory.

## Source
The project has a few directories to separate various parts of the project, detailed below

- `build/`: Contains the build output
- `examples`: Examples of how the library can be used
- `src`: The source code for the engine

### Overview

The `Mesh` struct manages information about the object being simulated over. There's an associated _Mesh_ class for each dimension. For example, one dimensional simulations should use `1DMesh`.

![Mesh](docs/mesh.png)

The `Engine` class parses information from associated mesh and is responsible for encapsulating the routiens for the Finite Difference Method.

![Engine](docs/engine.png)
